# EXPLORING-FACTORS-AND-FEATURES-AFFECTING-AIRBNB-LISTING-PRICES
## BACKGROUND
Airbnb was founded in 2007 when two Hosts welcomed three guests to their San Francisco home and has since grown to 4 million Hosts who have welcomed more than 1 billion guest arrivals in almost every country across the globe (Airbnb, 2022). Airbnb has successfully disrupted the traditional hospitality industry as an increasing number of travelers, not just those looking for a good deal, but also business travelers, use Airbnb as their primary lodging source. The platform also allows homeowners to make some extra cash by renting out a room or property to visitors, and this is certainly the case in London where the amount of properties has dramatically increased. The beautiful capital city of England & United Kingdom – London, is one of the most visited cities in the world. Despite the restrictions implemented amidst the pandemic, this city remains to be one of the most popular destinations visited by numerous travellers across the globe. Relatively, as travellers look for their ideal place to stay in London, the demand for Airbnb is expected to rapidly increase. According to property management, over 50% of guests prefer to stay at an Airbnb than a traditional hotel for various reasons and an experienced host can earn an average of $10,000 annually. While this may sound enticing to Airbnb hosts who would like to invest their time and money, we must keep in mind that some neighbourhoods may not offer an equal amount of return on investment.
AirBnb has become a dominant participant in the online-rental marketplace industry, as tourists and business visitors, among others, use it to rent rooms, apartments, and other available homestay accommodations. The company was a pioneer in creating Homestay as a popular style of hospitality and lodging in which travelers share a home with a native of the city they are visiting for a pre-arranged period. Due to its popularity and reach out in the tourist and hospitality industries a huge amount of data is generated daily. The organization has accumulated massive amounts of information from the cities in which it operates, including user reviews, location descriptions, and rental statistics. Respectively, this project shows exploratory data analysis, visualizations, dashboard, reports, interactive charts, and many other fascinating insights into the Airbnb dataset of London.

### PURPOSE OF THE PROJECT
• This project aims to identify the factors and features of an Airbnb listing that make it more expensive. It provides insights into the factors affecting the price of Airbnb listings and offers guidance to hosts and travelers in optimizing their listings or finding suitable accommodations.
